---
layout: post
title: "Cortex-Debug for Visual Studio Code"
date: 2020-03-27 07:07:21 -0400
categories: Rust embedded
---

This week, I learned about [Cortex-Debug extension for VS Code](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=marus25.cortex-debug). It sounded pretty cool to run GDB and ITM within the context of VSCode. So, I tried it out and found it awesome. 

With this extension, I can easily start a debug session with just a click on a button. The graphical front end is really nice. No more opening up separate terminal windows for GDB and ITM. It was like a scenery opening up before my eyes after a long tedious hike. The view is very different from here.

## Configuration
Installation was extremely easy. And configuration was not bad either. Since I generated my project with [cortex-m-quickstart](https://github.com/rust-embedded/cortex-m-quickstart), the default setting was pretty much all I needed for my Discovery board.

The cortex-m-quickstart template has a folder called `.vscode` that should look like this:

```bash
.vscode
  - extensions.json
  - launch.json
  - tasks.json
```
We modify `launch.json` to configure debug features. 

### Parameters
Here is a list of parameters in `launch.json`. Configure them for your specific device and environment.

- `"cwd"`: Path of project
- `"configFiles"`: OpenOCD configuration file(s) to load
- `"device"`: Target Device Identifier
- `"interface"`: Debug Interface type to use for connections (defaults to SWD) - Used for J-Link and BMP probes.
- `"name"`: Name of configuration; appears in the launch configuration dropdown menu.
- `"preLaunchTask"`: Task to run before debug session starts. Specify a task defined in `tasks.json`.
- `"request"`: Request type of configuration. Can be "launch" or "attach".
- `"runToMain"`: If enabled the debugger will run until it the start of the main function.
- `"serialNumber"`: J-Link specific parameter. J-Link Serial Number - only needed if multiple J-Links are connected to the computer
- `"servertype"`: GDB Server type - supported types are jlink, openocd, pyocd, pe and stutil
- `"svdFile"`: Path to an SVD file describing the peripherals of the microcontroller; if not supplied then one may be selected based upon the 'device' entered. This may be automatically loaded depending on the `"device"`.
- `"swoConfig"`: SWO/ITM configuration. 
	- `"enabled"`: Enable SWO decoding.
	- `"cpuFrequency"`: Target CPU frequency in Hz.
	- `"swoFrequency"`: SWO frequency in Hz.
	- `"source"`: Source for SWO data. Can either be "probe" to get directly from debug probe, or a serial port device to use a serial port external to the debug probe.
	- `"decoders"`: SWO Decoder Configuration
		- `"label"`: A label for the output window.
		- `"port"`: ITM Port Number


### Example 1: Discovery Board / OpenOCD
Here is a configuration for my Discovery board. This is basically [cortex-m-quickstart](https://github.com/rust-embedded/cortex-m-quickstart)’s default setting. 

<script src="https://gist.github.com/lonesometraveler/32bbbaf274ebb0b2783860ca700df7d1.js"></script>

### Example 2: Nucleo-F429ZI Board / J-Link
Out of curiosity, I upgraded Nucleo-F429’s STLink firmware to [JLink](https://www.segger.com/products/debug-probes/j-link/models/other-j-links/st-link-on-board/). So, for my Nucleo with the J-Link firmware, I changed set `"servertype"` to `"jlink"` and `"interface"` to `"swd"`. I didn't need to specify `"svdFile"`. I guess it was automatically loaded for my `"device"` which is `"STM32F429ZI"`.

<script src="https://gist.github.com/lonesometraveler/107b4a8474365fe9720529a75f695b51.js"></script>